now Solomon assembled the elders of
Israel and all the heads of the tribes
the chief fathers of the children of
Israel to King Solomon in Jerusalem that
they might bring up the Ark of the
Covenant of the Lord from the City of
David which is Zion therefore all the
men of Israel assembled with King
Solomon at the feast in the month of
ethylene which is the seventh month so
all the elders of Israel came and the
priests took out the ark then they
brought up the Ark of the law the
tabernacle of meeting and all the holy
furnishings that were in the tabernacle
the priests and the Levites brought them
out also King Solomon and all the
congregation of Israel who were
assembled with him were with him before
the ark sacrificing sheep and oxen that
could not be counted or numbered for
multitude then the priests brought in
the Ark of the Covenant of the Lord to
its place into the inner sanctuary of
the temple to the most holy place under
the wings of the cherubim for the
cherubim spread their two wings over the
place of the Ark and the cherubim
overshadowed the Ark and its poles the
poles extended so that the ends of the
poles could be seen from the holy place
in front of the inner sanctuary but they
could not be seen from the outside
[Music]
and they are there to this day nothing
was in the arc except the two tablets of
stone which Moses put there at her end
when the Lord made a covenant with the
children of Israel when they came out to
the land of Egypt and it came to pass
when the priests came out of the holy
place but the cloud filled the house of
the Lord so that the priests could not
continue ministering because of a cloud
for the glory of the Lord filled the
house of the Lord then Solomon spoke the
Lord said he would dwell in the dark
cloud
I have surely built you an exalted house
and a place for you to dwell in forever
then the king turned around and blessed
the whole Assembly of Israel while all
the Assembly of Israel was standing
blessed be the Lord God of Israel who
spoke with his mouth to my father David
and with his hand has fulfilled it
saying since the day that I brought my
people Israel out of Egypt I have chosen
no city from any tribe of Israel in
which to build a house that my name
might be there but I chose David to be
over my people Israel now it was in the
heart of my father David to build a
temple for the name of the Lord God of
Israel but the Lord said to my father
David whereas it was in your heart to
build a temple for my name you did well
that it was in your heart nevertheless
you shall not build the temple but your
son who will come from your body he
shall build the temple for my name so
the Lord has fulfilled his word which he
spoke and I have filled the position of
my father David and sit on the throne of
Israel as the Lord promised and I have
built a temple for the name of the Lord
God of
ray'll and their I have made a place for
the ark in which is the Covenant of the
Lord which he made with our fathers when
he brought them out of the land of Egypt
then Solomon stood before the altar of
the Lord in the presence of all the
Assembly of Israel and spread out his
hands toward heaven and he said Lord God
of Israel there is no God in heaven
above or on earth below like you who
keep your covenant and mercy with your
servants who walk before you with all
their hearts you have kept what you
promised your servant David my father
you have both spoken with your mouth and
fulfilled it with your hand
as it is this day therefore Lord God of
Israel
now keep what you promised your servant
David my father saying you shall not
fail to have a man sit before me on the
throne of Israel only if your sons take
heed to their way that they walk before
me as you have walked before me
and now I pray O God of Israel let your
word come true which you have spoken to
your servant David my father but will
God indeed dwell on the earth behold
heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot
contain you how much less this temple
which I have built yet regard the prayer
of your servant and his supplication o
Lord my God and listen to the cry and
the prayer which your servant is praying
before you today that your eyes may be
open toward his temple night and day
toward the place of which you said my
name shall be there that you may hear
the prayer which your servant makes
toward this place and may you hear the
supplication of your servant and of your
people Israel when they pray toward this
place here in heaven your dwelling place
and when you hear forgive when anyone
sins against his neighbor and is forced
to take an oath and comes and takes an
oath before your altar in this temple
then here in heaven and act and judge
your servants condemning the wicked
bringing his way on his head and
justifying the righteous by giving him
according to his righteousness when your
people Israel are defeated before an
enemy because they have sinned against
you and when they turned back to you and
confess your name and pray and make
supplication to you in this temple then
here in heaven and forgive the sin of
your people Israel and bring them back
to the land which you gave to their
fathers when the heavens are shut up and
there is no rain because they have
sinned against you when they pray toward
this place
and confess your name and turn from
their sin because you afflict them then
here in heaven and forgive the sin of
your servants your people Israel that
you may teach them the good way in which
they should walk and sent rain on your
land which you have given to your people
as an inheritance when there is famine
in the land pestilence or blight or
mildew locusts or grasshoppers when
their enemy besieges them in the land of
their cities whatever plague or whatever
sickness there is whatever prayer
whatever supplication is made by anyone
or by all your people Israel when each
one knows the plague of his own heart
and spreads out his hands toward this
temple then here in heaven your dwelling
place and forgive and act and give to
everyone according to all his ways whose
heart you know for you alone know the
hearts of all the sons of men that they
may fear you all the days that they live
in the land which you gave to our
fathers
moreover concerning a foreigner who is
not of your people Israel but has come
from a far country for your namesake for
they will hear of your great name and
your strong hand and your outstretched
arm when he comes and prays towards this
temple here in heaven your dwelling
place and do according to all for which
the foreigner calls to you that all
peoples of the earth may know your name
and fear you as do your people Israel
and that they may know that this temple
which I have built is called by your
name when your people go out to battle
against their enemy wherever you send
them and when they pray to the Lord
toward the city which you have chosen
and the temple which I have built for
your name then here in heaven their
prayer and their supplication and
maintained their cause when they sin
against you for there is no one who does
not sin and you become angry with them
and deliver them to the enemy and they
take them captive to the land of the
enemy far or near
yet when they come to themselves in the
land where they were carried captive and
repent and make supplication to you in
the land of those who took them captive
saying we have sinned and done wrong we
have committed wickedness and when they
returned to you with all their heart and
with all their soul in the land of their
enemies who led them away captive and
prey to you toward their land which you
gave to their fathers the city which you
have chosen and the temple which I have
built for your name then here in heaven
your dwelling place their prayer and
their supplication and maintained their
cause and forgive your people who have
sinned against you and all their
transgressions which they have
transgressed against you and grant them
compassion before those who took them
captive that they may have compassion on
them for they are your people and your
inheritance whom you brought out of
Egypt out of the iron furnace that your
eyes may be open to the supplication of
your servant and the supplication of
your people Israel to listen to them
whenever they call to you for you
separated them from among all the
peoples of the earth to be your
inheritance as you spoke by your servant
Moses when you brought our fathers out
of Egypt Oh Lord God and so it was when
Solomon had finished praying all this
prayer and supplication to the Lord that
he arose from before the altar of the
Lord from kneeling on his knees with his
hands spread up to heaven then he stood
and blessed all the Assembly of Israel
with a loud voice
blessed be the Lord who has given rest
to his people Israel according to all
that he promised there has not failed
one word of all his good promise which
he promised through his servant Moses
may the Lord our God be with us as he
was with our fathers may he not leave us
nor forsake us that he may incline our
hearts to himself to walk in all his
ways and to keep his Commandments and
his statutes and his judgments which he
commanded our fathers and may these
words of mine with which I have made
supplication before the Lord be near the
Lord our God day and night that he may
maintain the cause of his servants and
the cause of his people Israel as each
day may require that all the peoples of
the earth may know that the Lord is God
there is no other that your heart
therefore be loyal to the Lord our God
to walk in his statutes and keep his
Commandments as at this day then the
king and all Israel with him offered
sacrifices before the Lord
and Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace
offerings which he offered to the Lord
22,000 bulls and 120,000 sheep so the
king and all the children of Israel
dedicated the house of the Lord on the
same day the King consecrated the middle
of the court that was in front of the
house of the Lord for there he offered
burnt offerings grain offerings and the
fat of the peace offerings because the
bronze altar that was before the Lord
was too small
to receive the burnt offerings the grain
offerings and the fat of the peace
offerings at that time Solomon held a
feast and all Israel with him a great
assembly from the entrance of amath to
the brook of Egypt before the Lord our
God seven days and seven more days 14
days on the eighth day he sent the
people away and they blessed the king
and went to their tents joyful and glad
of heart for all the good that the Lord
had done for his servant David and for
Israel his people